I have been working on some research related to optimization of non-normal returns.  If you’d like to run some experiments, 
I can include you all in the acknowledgements if we decide to publish it.  
 
Here’s the idea:  it is widely known that many hedge fund strategies include non-traditional exposures.  As one example, 
there are some strategies that are (either explicitly or implicitly) short volatility.  What does this do?  It can actually 
inflate the sharpe ratio, giving an “artificial” outperformance when compared to other traditional strategies.  Remember that if 
SR =  (E( r) – rf) / stdev, then you could inflate the measure by finding a strategy that minimizes the stdev…but there are rarely 
any “free lunches” :  in exchange, these hedge funds are taking on a different type of risk—perhaps skew or kurtosis or some other 
combination.
 
So, we can look at some hedge funds (a lot of those return series are proprietary) or hedge fund indices (e.g., HFRI) to first run 
summary data on their characteristics (let’s just get an idea of their mean, stdev, skew, and kurt).  Then, you can run an MVO optimization 
on, say, Equities (SPY), Fixed Income (AGG), and the set of HFRI indices (there is a composite index, and indices that represent each of the 
sub-strategies).  It would be best to use the individual strategies rather than the composite (since the composite will mask some of the underlying 
risks).  MVO only considers mean versus variance.  So we will collect the efficient frontier and the ORP for that exercise.  
 
Then, we will run the optimization again, but this time using M-CVAR (mean versus conditional value at risk)  or M-VSK (mean versus variance, 
skew, and kurtosis) to determine what the efficient frontier looks like under that process when we are explicitly optimizing considering the 
fact that a strategy might be non-normal!  We will also look at that ORP.  
 
It is likely that the two ORPs will be statistically significantly different if the HFRI indices are in fact non-normal.   Remember that MVO 
would basically be a constrained subset of MVSK or MCVaR where the Skew and Excess Kurtosis is zero (ignored).  I ran this experiment in 2002 
for my hedge fund and wealth management business and it was extremely successful:  we found that MVO underestimated the risk in the optimal 
risky portfolio (as measured by M-CVaR) by as much as 50%.  The underestimation was most pronounced for those strategies that were already low 
volatility.  What that means is that for those strategies that are marketed as being “low risk” they actually are the ones that underestimate 
the risk the most (from a relative point of view).  I updated this experiment in 2008 just before selling my company, and it was one of the 
intellectual properties that the buyer definitely wanted.  So, I can’t give you my data, but a lot of this is in the public domain now anyway.  
There was a paper written in 2004:  Risks and Portfolio Decisions by Naik and Agarwal (you can google it), where they define their methodology.  
HFRI data are expensive, and I have tried to get the business librarian to get it for us, but its still in process.  But you might be able to use 
the HFRX series of indexes, which are freely available online.
 
The findings, if substantial, would have significant implications for strategy allocation for firms that allocate money (wealth managers) or 
fund of funds (FoF) firms.  When I did this in 2002, it was avant-garde.  Today, most people know the issue, but the data has not been updated 
in quite a while.  Given that we have had a strong bull market punctuated by two major crises in the past 14 years, it could be interesting to 
see if the results have changed.
